# Accredit - A service for getting credentials to services

We use web services to store and present benchmarking results, as well
as to host the benchmarking coordination itself.  To interact with
those services the user, or rather the programs invoked by the user,
require credentials.

We don't want to store those credentials in the program's repository,
because we might want the program itself to be public, apart from
other issues with this approach.  We also would like to avoid having
to ask IT for the credentials.  They are busy enough and this would be
another non-automated hurdle that slows us down.

Accredit solves this problem by using the user's GitHub authentication
to prove their identity and, once proven, provides credentials for
various services.

## Work-flow

To initiate a request for credentials, the client - the program,
acting on the user's behalf - does a POST request to

    https://benchmarker.parseapp.com/requestCredentials

It provides three arguments:

  - `service`: The name of the service for which credentials are requested
  - `key`: A random key used to identify this request
  - `secret`: A really, really random secret shared between the client and Accredit

The request will return a `text/plain` document containing the URL of
a GitHub OAuth endpoint which the client then opens in the user's
browser.  The user authorizes the "Xamarin Benchmarker" app on GitHub
and is then redirected back to an Accredit URL that requires an
additional confirmation from the user, asking them to make sure that
this request is done on their behalf, and that the key matches the one
generated by the client.

Once the user acknowledges the request in the browser and Accredit
verifies that the user is trusted - because they belong to the
`xamarin` GitHub organization, for example - an entry in the
`CredentialsResponse` table on Parse is generated:

    curl -X GET \
            -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: 7khPUBga9c7L1YryD1se1bp6VRzKKJESc0baS9ES" \
            -H "X-Parse-REST-API-Key: xOHOwaDls0fcuMKLIH0nzaMKclLzCWllwClLej4d" \
            -G \
            https://api.parse.com/1/classes/CredentialsResponse
    
    {
      "results": [
        {
          "createdAt": "2015-07-16T21:39:08.116Z",
          "key": "e22fe736-b3d7-4630-8213-ae9a36980fd1",
          "objectId": "cqbwUYJTvo",
          "success": true,
          "updatedAt": "2015-07-16T21:39:08.116Z"
        }
      ]
    }

The client queries this table for an entry with `key` being the key it
generated, and once the entry is there and `success` is `true`, it
does a POST request to

    https://benchmarker.parseapp.com/getCredentials

with the arguments

  - `key`: The random key
  - `secret`: The random secret

to finally get the credentials.  This call removes the entry from the
`CredentialsResponse` table.

## Known problems

### Denial of service

The `getCredentials` call will always remove the `CredentialsResponse`
table entry, so an attacker could just poll the table and immediately
make calls to `getCredentials` to deny service to legitimate users.

Another vector is doing repeated calls to `requestCredentials` to
create garbage in the internal `CredentialsRequest` table and use up
our limit of Parse requests per second.

### Clickjacking

If a web page managed to embed the OAuth callback and get the user to
click on the Accredit acknowledgment button it would be able to do a
`requestCredentials` call first, then go through OAuth, automatically
acknowledge, and then call `getCredentials` to acquire credentials
illicitly.
